Updated documentation related to power meter integration (#3184)
OttoWinter/esphomedocs: components/sensor/pulse_meter.rst

    :image: pulse.svg

The pulse meter sensor allows you to count the number and frequency of pulses on any pin. It is intended to be a drop-in replacement
for the :doc:`pulse counter integration </components/sensor/pulse_counter>`.

> It measures the time between rising edges on a pin, for each pulse it outputs the frequency in ``pulses/min``, as opposed to the pulse counter sensor which outputs the number of pulses in a time interval.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It measures the _width_ of pulses on a pin, and converts this to an equivalent frequency expressed in pulses per minute, as opposed to the pulse counter sensor which counts the number of pulses in a time interval.
```

Author: But it doesn't measure the width of the pulses. It measures the time between two rising edges, at least according to the documentation that was in place before. Like so:

![images](https://github.com/esphome/esphome-docs/assets/29854606/dae924b6-3f48-4e8e-b2dd-dca6df8b6b1b)

So *not* the width of the pulses.

Reviewer: It depends on the mode. In PULSE mode it does measure the width of the positive pulse. In EDGE mode it measures the period of the pulse train. So you could say "measures the width or period of pulses on a pin". My suggestion later on the mode description clarifies this.

Reviewer 2: It 100% does not measure the width of the pulses, it always measures rising edge to rising edge

> This leads to a higher resolution, especially for low pulse rates, as the pulse counter sensor is limited by the number of pulses within a time interval. The difference between ``1 pulse/min`` and ``2 pulses/min`` is much higher than ``2000 pulses/min`` and ``2001 pulses/min``. The pulse_meter is only limited by its accuracy to measure the time between pulses, which leads to an inverse relationship between pulse rate and accuracy. The lower the pulse rate, the higher the accuracy. Lower accuracy with very high pulse rates is less likely to be a problem, as the ESP32 can measure time intervals with a resolution of ``1us``.

Reviewer: You've used back-ticks a lot to emphasise units - back-ticks are meant for code. I'm not sure it's even necessary to emphasise real-world units, but consider other options like ordinary quotes, italic or bold instead.

Just because ESP code can measure with a resolution of 1us does not mean it has an accuracy of 1us. I'd be inclined to remove that sentence.

Author: Mmh, the default was in backticks, I guess I misinterpreted it as a way to also mark units and such.

As to the resolution, the API talks about a microsecond resolution. https://docs.espressif.com/projects/esp-idf/en/latest/esp32/api-reference/system/esp_timer.html

Reviewer: Resolution does not guarantee accuracy. A clock might display time to within 1 second but be wrong by minutes. In the case of this component the timing of edges is measured within an interrupt by reading the microsecond timer. The delay between an edge happening and the interrupt being serviced is variable, and could easily run into several microseconds.

Using a hardware compare/capture module might guarantee microsecond accuracy, but that's not how this component is implemented.

I would just avoid making statements that are opinions and/or not verifiable. Without testing I really don't know how well this meter would do at very high pulse rates - whereas at rates typical for your application I agree it should do very well.

IMHO it's probably sufficient to simply say "This leads to a higher resolution, especially for low pulse rates, as the pulse counter sensor is limited by the number of pulses within a time interval." and leave it at that.

        pin: 12
        name: "Pulse Meter"

Configuration variables
------------------------

- **pin** (**Required**, :ref:`config-pin`): The pin to count pulses on.
- **name** (**Required**, string): The name of the sensor.

- **internal_filter** (*Optional*, :ref:`config-time`): If a pulse shorter than this   time is detected, it is discarded. Defaults to ``13us``.
  
  This acts as a debounce filter to eliminate input noise, so choose a value a little less than your expected minimum pulse width.

- **internal_filter_mode** (*Optional*, string): Determines how the internal filter is applied.
  One of ``EDGE`` or ``PULSE``. Defaults to ``EDGE``.
  - In ``EDGE`` mode, only rising edges are detected and pulse width is calculated as the time between successive rising edges.  

>   - In ``PULSE`` mode, both rising and falling edges are detected and pulse width is calculated as the time between a rising and a falling edge.

Reviewer 2: This is not how it works, the time measured by the pulse meter is always the time between successive rising edges.
The difference between the two filter modes is how it calculates what counts as a "rising edge"

In `EDGE` mode, the next rising edge must be at least `internal_filter` after the previous one. So a rising edge that happens earlier than this is just ignored. It works well when you have a clean signal and is good for higher rates as you don't need to process both edges (and the actual filter is simpler).

The `PULSE` mode requires that after an edge, the value must stay in that state for at least the `internal_filter` time before that edge counts. So if you have lots of noisy bounces it won't count them as rising or falling edges until after it's stayed in that state for long enough. So if you had say a 100ms filter time in pulse mode, your signal would need to be high for at least 100ms without changing, then low for at least 100ms without changing and then on the next rising edge, that pulse width from rising edge to rising edge would be counted.
It's good if you have lots of noisy bounces in your data as it'll ignore them better than the edge mode.

Author: My mistake, I guess I misread the code. Thanks for the clarification.

- **name** (**Required**, string): The name of the sensor.

- **internal_filter** (*Optional*, :ref:`config-time`): If a pulse shorter than this

>   time is detected, it’s discarded and no pulse is counted. Defaults to ``13us``. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  time is detected, it is discarded. Defaults to ``13us``. 
```

>   To calculate a meaningful value, you need to know the shortest pulse you expect to see, as not to filter out valid pulses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This acts as a debounce filter to eliminate input noise, so choose a value a little less than your expected minimum pulse width.
```

- **internal_filter_mode** (*Optional*, string): Determines how the internal filter is applied.

>   One of ``EDGE`` and ``PULSE``. Defaults to ``EDGE``. In ``EDGE`` mode subsequent rising edges are compared and if they fall into an interval lesser than the internal filter value, the last one is discarded. In ``PULSE`` mode the rising edge is discarded if any further interrupts are detected before the ``internal_filter`` time has passed. In other words, a high pulse must be at least ``internal_filter`` long to be counted. This is useful if you are detecting long pulses that may bounces before and/or after the main pulse.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  One of ``EDGE`` and ``PULSE``. Defaults to ``EDGE``. In ``EDGE`` mode rising edges only are detected and pulse width calculated as the time between successive edges.  In ``PULSE`` mode both rising and falling edges are detected and pulse width calculated as the time between a rising and a falling edge. In either case a pulse with width less than ``interval_timer`` is ignored.
```

Author: "rising edges only are detected", I'd rephrase that as "only the rising edges are detected, and the pulse width is calculated as the time between successive edges.

Reviewer: I don't see the difference but whatever. BTW "one of EDGE and PULSE" should be "one of EDGE or PULSE".

- **timeout** (*Optional*, :ref:`config-time`): If we don't see a pulse for this length of time, we assume ``0 pulses/s``. Defaults to ``5 min``.
- **total** (*Optional*, :ref:`config-id`): An additional sensor that outputs the total number of pulses counted.
- All other options from :ref:`Sensor <config-sensor>`.

Converting units
----------------

> The sensor defaults to units of ``pulses/min``. You can change this by using :ref:`sensor-filters`.

Reviewer: 10000 pulses/kWh? AFAIK most meters are 1000.

Author: It depends on the meter, the two modern ones I've seen in Germany, which admittedly were 3 phase meters, had 10000/kWh. 

Browsing through image results of smart meters has given results such as 400 and 600 pulses also so it's fairly arbitrary. I went with what I had because I wanted to avoid an accidental miscalculation or the like.

number of pulses measured. When used on a power meter, this can be used to
measure the total consumed energy in kWh.
When the total sensor is configured, ``pulse_meter`` also reports the total
number of pulses measured.

.. code-block:: yaml

    # Example configuration entry
    sensor:
      - platform: pulse_meter
        pin: 12
        unit_of_measurement: 'kW'
        name: 'Electricity Usage'
        internal_filter: 100ms
        accuracy_decimals: 3
        filters:
          - multiply: 0.06
      # ...
        total:
          name: "Electricity Total"
          unit_of_measurement: "kWh"
          accuracy_decimals: 3
          filters:
            - multiply: 0.001
          name: "Total Pulses"

(Re)Setting the total pulse count
---------------------------------
-----------------------------------

Using this action, you are able to reset/set the total pulse count. This can be useful
if you would like the ``total`` sensor to match what you see on your meter you are
trying to match.

.. code-block:: yaml

    on_...:
      then:
        - pulse_meter.set_total_pulses:
            id: pulse_meter_id
            value: 12345

.. note::

>     This value is the raw count of pulses, and not the value you see after the filters

Reviewer: Is this note wrong? If not, why remove it?

Author: I think the note was removed by accident when replacing the method. I'll re-add it.
